# Entry 6
##### 5/28/23

### Content
After months of working on my project, me and partners have finished and have presented our project to fellow classmates and SEP Expo judges. To prepare for our Expo presentation, we wrote an elevator pitch available to read here: [Elevator Pitch](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11L6lubKArRVktctMQd-8nBjUtdLkPGOFyCbbxm2b9yE/edit?usp=sharing). While presenting our elevator pitch to the judges, we were able to convey the majority of what we wrote, though it would've been more beneficial if we had written our names next to the sentences that each one of us had to speak. Due to being a three person team, there were some pauses after each sentence as we were figuring out who is saying th e next sentence. We also forgot to ask the judges if they had any questions about our project and whether they were interested in seeing our code. As the first one to present to the judges, I felt as if we didn't have enough practice and could've done a lot better. And instead of the three judges going to us one by one, we had all three of them come up to us at once, which made me nervous and confused when there were no more judges after they left. But overall, I think the judges really enjoyed our project and had fun playing our games. After the judges judged our project, students came to see our project. We did much better presenting our elevator pitch, but sometimes before we finished, people seemed disinterested in what we had to say and just wanted to play the games. So when we clearly stated that they should read the instructions for the games, most people didn't and so were confused on how to play the game. This frustrated me a little, so I think it would've been better if we  told them to remember to read the instructions at the beginning of our elevator pitch instead of at the end. But overall, I am impressed with how our project turned out and happy that people seemed to enjoy playing the games we made. I also liked how my partners had a piece a paper which recorded people's high scores for each game. It was a nice touch to our presentation and made the games more engaging and exciting with some friendly competition. 

For our in class presentation, we made a Google Slide presentation showing the process of creating our project, the tool we used, and the takeaways we had. We did pretty good, we projected our voices and didn't go fast or slow. Our hook was just right for our project and we explained how our tool Gdevelop worked and the key features of it we used to make our project. The only suggestion we got was to not show all of our code on Gdevelop as it was too small to read. This meant that I should've just included code snippets and put them on the Google Slide and explained them there instead of scrolling through all of my code on Gdevelop. And when explaining concepts in Gdevelop such as behaviors, I could've provided visuals on the slides so people will better understand what I am talking about. Before our presentation, I wrote down what to say on the speaker notes of the slides that I will be presenting. Even though I didn't say everything word for word, it was helpful nonetheless and made it so I wouldn't lose my thoughts or forget what I will be saying. I will continue to do that when I have presentations in the future. Here is the link to our presentation: [Presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/18SfQWYNKy7jik_4suVJHl-IVrZS0XAEGqawleiPXsUg/edit?usp=sharing).

### EDP
The step of the EDP we are at is step 8, the last step, Communicate the Results. To present our finalized project, me and my partners worked together on a Google Slide to present Gdevelop, the tool we used, the most important concepts in Gdevelop, and the main parts of the games we've made. I believed that objects, behaviors, variables, and timers were the most important concepts in Gdevelop, so we had a slide explaining each of them. We also had a demo link where people can play the games we made. The majority of the presentation was on how we made our game with each of us explaining the main part of our game creation. We also added slides to talk about how we created the menu and instructions pages. And finally we added a conclusion slide, wrapping up our presentation and provided resources players can use to start learning Gdevelop and potentially create their own games.  
### Skills
The two skills I used was collaboration and communication which went hand in hand while I was making the presentation with my partners. Each one of us assigned ourselves specific slides to do and shared advices on how to improve our slides. We made sure to hold each other accountable so that we all can finished the slides before the deadline. Overall, by working together and letting each other know what we will be doing and presenting during the presentation, our presentation went smoothly and none of us had to do another person's work.
[Previous](entry05.md) | [Next](entry07.md)

[Home](../README.md)
