# Entry 3
##### 2/9/2023

### Content
I learned a lot but instead of using the playlists that I stated in the previous blog, this time I used the Gdevelop website for a simple two player game with two wizards shooting spells at each other: https://wiki.gdevelop.io/gdevelop5/tutorials/fire-and-ice/start. Even though the game is really simple there are a lot of new mechanisms that I have to learn such as how to make a gameover scene, how have a healthbar that scales off an object's health, how set a timer so the ice and fire wizard can't just spam spells and instead have a cool down before they can cast a spell again. Oviously there are a lot more to the game but these are the things I learned. <br>

Now to start off with the game I first have to create all the objects which are the fire and ice wizard, the ice and fire projectiles, the background image, the healthbars, and the top and bottom delimiter. I downloaded all of the images I needed from the website but unfortunately whenever I added the image for the ice wizard, it kept giving me the image for the fireWizard so I just skipped the parts for the iceWizard and improvised a bit. <br>

The background object had the least z-score out of all the objects so all the other objects would show on the screen. I learned that if there is two objetcs with different z-scores, the one with the bigger z-score will cover the object with the lower z-score if they are on top of each other. <br>

For the fire wizard I needed to add three animations: idle, attack and died. The idle animations happens when the fire wizard isn't doing anything besides moving up and down. The attack animation happens when the fire wizard shoots a fire protectile, and the dead animations happens when the health of fire wizard is 0. <br>

This is the code I learned to allow the fire wizard shoot a protectile when I press the space key: [image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/73482933/218281329-cc9dde24-eef9-40c3-8e1e-8ea7307c8d00.png) <br>
The first thing I want to do is to check if the fire wizard's health is greater than 0, so then the fire wizard is able to attack. Health is an instance variable of the fire wizard object with an initial value of 100. After the condition is met, I can then make it so that when the space key is pressed, the fire wizard's animation goes to attack mode and that a fire protectile object is at the position of the fire wizard (the fire protectiule's position is not exactly at the wizard's position; it's actually a little bit away for stylistic purposes). Now after the fire protectile is created I need it to move across the screen and to do that I just need to add a force on the x-axis. The force on the x-axis is positive due to the fact that I want the fire protectile to move to the right since the fire wizard is at the left side of the screen. The force is permanant so the fire protectile doesn't just stop in the middle of the screen. And as you can see here, there is a fire shooter timer which makes sure that only after every 0.3 seconds a fire protectile can be shot, this is so the attack can't be spammed. <br>

Even though I wasn't able to create the ice wizard I still made ice protectiles that spawn randomly on the right side of the screen: [Image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/73482933/218281964-c91a5c15-b242-4320-a16c-39d55145b877.png). <br>
What these lines of code do is that after 2.5 seconds a single ice projectile is created at the right side of the screen and then moves to the left side of the screen where the fire wizard is. <br>

Now after the fire and ice protectiles were successfully created I added code which decreases the health variable of the fire wizard by 10 when it is hit by an ice protecile. [Image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/73482933/218282153-dadf7955-357d-4fc1-92aa-31d2f3a65fab.png) <br>
I also created code for a score system where the scene variable score gets added by 1 when a fire proectile produced by the fire wizard hits a ice projectile. [Image] (https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/73482933/218282365-61223fbb-d3ec-48e4-a7b7-8b3394a67327.png) <br>

Now after this I need to scale the size of the health bar to the health variable. It's a lot more simple than I thought it would be, since I already created the health variable all I just need to do is change the width of the healthbar to the current valye of health. [Image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/73482933/218282462-a0b57dba-0ae7-4531-8caf-c89058de4807.png) <br>

Now the final thing I need to create is the game over screen when fire wizard's health is 0. To do that I first need to add a new layer (currently everything I've done so far is on the base layer) called 'GameOver', then I just create the text object for when the game ends and make its layer to 'GameOver' instead of the base layer. Then at the beginning of the scene I want to hide the 'GameOver' layer so the text won't show until the fire wizard is dead (health is 0). [Image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/73482933/218283981-73dc5ed2-f28a-464e-b3f3-61c9b77c729b.png) In the code the scene variable 'gameRunning' becomes 0 when the fire wizard's health is 0. <br>

My next goal is to once again learn how to create the rock, paper, scissors game: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3f2Wpog-ZwI
 and to also create the dinosaur game: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fCId6_yH2ls (when there is no internet) on Gdevelop. I want to learn how to create more types of games so me and my teammates can combine all of the games we learned so people can select games they want to play in one place. Me and my teammates also decided that we are not going to create the Java review game and instead focus on creating small minigames. 

### EDP
The current EDP steps I am in are create a prototype and test and evaluate the prototype. As we decided that we are not creating the Java review game, we are now focusing on games that we can create. There are many YouTube tutorials on how to create popular games and many game templates on Gdevelop. This means that each of us can select what types of games we want to make and create them ourselves, potentially adding more features or creating levels for these games. And since we want to put all these games in one spot, before we do so, we must know how to make them first. Then we need to make sure that everything works and then we can put them all together in one area with a menu button to select the game we want to play, make sure we can transition from one level to another, etc.

### Skills
The skills that I need to focus on more on is time management and problem decomposition. Since my last blog to now I've been procrastinating, not wanting to learn more of my tool. My original plan was to finish the wizard game and also make rock, paper, scissors but along the way I just decided not to. I've been feeling unmotivated and especially during break I didn't want to do any work. But before writing this blog, when I finished the wizard game I realized that it really didn't take a lot of time and that in 3-5 days I could've finished the whole entire thing. This made me realize that I need to manage my time more wisely and that I should give myself a schedule to accomplish certain tasks, like make sure that I watch 10 minute of a tutorial I'm following and doing it on Gdevelop everyday or if I'm following a website tutorial, follow instructions for one webpage everyday. This way I won't feel too overwhelmed and just push the tasks to the very last day and I would be able to build and create more.
[Previous](entry02.md) | [Next](entry04.md)

[Home](../README.md)
